SSRF attacks often exploit trust relationships to escalate an attack from the vulnerable application and perform unauthorized actions. These trust relationships might exist in relation to the server itself, or in relation to other back-end systems within the same organization.

## I. SSRF attacks against the server itself

In an SSRF attack against the server itself, the attacker induces the application to make an HTTP request back to the server that is hosting the application, via its loopback network interface. This will typically involve supplying a URL with a hostname like 127.0.0.1 (a reserved IP address that points to the loopback adapter) or localhost (a commonly used name for the same adapter).

Why do applications implicitly trust requests that come from the local machine? This can arise for various reasons:

- The access control check might be implemented in a different component that sits in front of the application server. When a connection is made back the the server itself, the check is bypassed.
- For disaster recovery purposes, the application might allow administrative access without logging in, to any user coming from the local machine. This provides a way for an administrator to recover the system in the event they lose their credentials. The assumption here is that only a fully trusted user would be coming directly from the server itself.
- The administrative interface might be listening on a different port number than the main application, and so might not be reachable directly by users.

These kind of trust relationships, where requests originating from the local machine are handled differently than ordinary requests, is often what makes SSRF into a critical vulnerability.

ExLab: [1. Basic SSRF against the local server](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/Server-side%20request%20forgery%20%28SSRF%29/lab/apprentice/1.%20Basic%20SSRF%20against%20the%20local%20server.md)

## 2. SSRF attacks against other back-end systems

Another type of trust relationship that often arises with server-side request forgery is where the application server is able to interact with other back-end systems that are not directly reachable by users. These systems often have non-routable private IP addresses. Since the back-end systems are normally protected by the network topology, they often have a weaker security posture. In many cases, internal back-end systems contain sensitive functionality that can be accessed without authentication by anyone who is able to interact with the systems.

ExLab: [2. Basic SSRF against another back-end system](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/Server-side%20request%20forgery%20%28SSRF%29/lab/apprentice/2.%20Basic%20SSRF%20against%20another%20back-end%20system.md)
