# SQL injection examples
There are a wide variety of SQL injection vulnerabilities, attacks, and techniques, which arise in different situations. Some common SQL injection examples include:
- [**Retrieving hidden data**](#retrieving-hidden-data): where you can modify an SQL query to return additional results.
- **Subverting application logic**: where you can change a query to interfere with the application's logic.
- **UNION** attacks: where you can retrieve data from different database tables.
- **Examining the database**: where you can extract information about the version and structure of the database.
- **Blind SQL injection**: where the results of a query you control are not returned in the application's responses.

## Retrieving hidden data
```
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts
```
=> 
```sql
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' AND released = 1
```
The application doesn't implement any defenses against SQL injection attacks, so an attacker can construct an attack like:
```
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'--
```
=> 
```sql
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'--' AND released = 1
```
or:
```
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+OR+1=1--
```
=>
```sql
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' OR 1=1--' AND released = 1
```

ExLab: [lab-retrieve-hidden-data](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/SQL%20injection/lab/apprentice/1.%20lab-retrieve-hidden-data.md)

## Subverting application logic
Consider an application that lets users log in with a username and password. If a user submits the username `wiener` and the password `bluecheese`, the application checks the credentials by performing the following SQL query:
```sql
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'wiener' AND password = 'bluecheese'
```
If the query returns the details of a user, then the login is successful. Otherwise, it is rejected.

Here, an attacker can log in as any user without a password simply by using the SQL comment sequence -- to remove the password check from the `WHERE`clause of the query. For example, submitting the username `administrator'--` and a blank password results in the following query:
```sql
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'administrator'--' AND password = ''
```
This query returns the user whose username is `administrator` and successfully logs the attacker in as that user.

ExLab: [lab-login-bypass](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/SQL%20injection/lab/apprentice/2.%20lab-login-bypass.md)

## Retrieving data from other database tables
In cases where the results of an SQL query are returned within the application's responses, an attacker can leverage an SQL injection vulnerability to retrieve data from other tables within the database. This is done using the `UNION` keyword, which lets you execute an additional `SELECT` query and append the results to the original query.

For example, if an application executes the following query containing the user input "Gifts":

`SELECT name, description FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'`
then an attacker can submit the input:

`' UNION SELECT username, password FROM users--`
This will cause the application to return all usernames and passwords along with the names and descriptions of products.

Union attack: [link](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection/union-attacks)

## Examining the database
Following initial identification of an SQL injection vulnerability, it is generally useful to obtain some information about the database itself. This information can often pave the way for further exploitation.

You can query the version details for the database. The way that this is done depends on the database type, so you can infer the database type from whichever technique works. For example, on Oracle you can execute:
`SELECT * FROM v$version`
You can also determine what database tables exist, and which columns they contain. For example, on most databases you can execute the following query to list the tables:
`SELECT * FROM information_schema.tables`

## Blind SQL injection vulnerabilities
Many instances of SQL injection are blind vulnerabilities. This means that the application does not return the results of the SQL query or the details of any database errors within its responses. Blind vulnerabilities can still be exploited to access unauthorized data, but the techniques involved are generally more complicated and difficult to perform.

Depending on the nature of the vulnerability and the database involved, the following techniques can be used to exploit blind SQL injection vulnerabilities:
- You can change the logic of the query to trigger a detectable difference in the application's response depending on the truth of a single condition. This might involve injecting a new condition into some Boolean logic, or conditionally triggering an error such as a divide-by-zero.
- You can conditionally trigger a time delay in the processing of the query, allowing you to infer the truth of the condition based on the time that the application takes to respond.
- You can trigger an out-of-band network interaction, using OAST techniques. This technique is extremely powerful and works in situations where the other techniques do not. Often, you can directly exfiltrate data via the out-of-band channel, for example by placing the data into a DNS lookup for a domain that you control.