It is common to see applications containing SSRF behavior together with defenses aimed at preventing malicious exploitation. Often, these defenses can be circumvented.

## I. SSRF with blacklist-based input filters
Some applications block input containing hostnames like `127.0.0.1` and `localhost`, or sensitive URLs like `/admin`. In this situation, you can often circumvent the filter using various techniques:
- Using an alternative IP representation of `127.0.0.1`: such as `2130706433`, `017700000001`, or `127.1`.
- Registering your own domain name that resolves to 127.0.0.1. You can use `spoofed.burpcollaborator.net` for this purpose.
- Obfuscating blocked strings using URL encoding or case variation.

ExLab: [3. SSRF with blacklist-based input filter](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/Server-side%20request%20forgery%20%28SSRF%29/lab/practitioner/3.%20SSRF%20with%20blacklist-based%20input%20filter.md)

## II. SSRF with whitelist-based input filters

Some applications only allow input that matches, begins with, or contains, a whitelist of permitted values. In this situation, you can sometimes circumvent the filter by exploiting inconsistencies in URL parsing.

The URL specification contains a number of features that are liable to be overlooked when implementing ad hoc parsing and validation of URLs:

- You can embed credentials in a URL before the hostname, using the @ character. For example: `https://expected-host@evil-host`
- You can use the `#` character to indicate a URL fragment. For example: `https://evil-host#expected-host`
- You can leverage the DNS naming hierarchy to place required input into a fully-qualified DNS name that you control. For example: `https://expected-host.evil-host`
- You can URL-encode characters to confuse the URL-parsing code. This is particularly useful if the code that implements the filter handles URL-encoded characters differently than the code that performs the back-end HTTP request.

You can use combinations of these techniques together.

ExLab: [6. SSRF with whitelist-based input filter](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/Server-side%20request%20forgery%20%28SSRF%29/lab/expert/6.%20SSRF%20with%20whitelist-based%20input%20filter.md)